well good evening everyone and welcome
to the Newport mansions I'm standing in
front of the marble house the
spectacular building was completed in
just four years construction began in
1888 and it was completely finished in
1892 it was built for William K and Alva
Vanderbilt and it is one of the most
opulent beautiful buildings of this
famous Gilded Age era one of 11 that the
Preservation Society of Newport County
interprets and opens to the public
Richard Morris hunt known as the Dean of
American architecture was chosen by the
Vanderbilts to design this beautiful
marble palace the exterior of the house
is Tuckahoe marble from New York and
when you step inside it literally will
take your breath away the entry hall is
you're surrounded by warm yellow Sienna
marble the dining room is pink numidian
marble from northern Africa all told
there is 500,000 cubic feet of marble in
this house Richard Morris hunt designed
the house as a perfect cube and when you
step into that in the entry hall you're
in the center of the cube he designed it
to the Petit Trianon so please join me
in marble house and celebrate the season
Christmas in Newport and at the Newport
mansions it's an experience that you and
your family will never forget come in
join me we have musical groups we have
ballerinas we have choirs you step in to
the Grand Hall in the
this is the yellow Sienna marble from
Italy and you can see we have visitors
in all of the rooms the gold room
appropriately tissue sized gold leaf
makes up that gold room
a dinner and the Vanderbilts during the
Gilded Age was an event you would sit
down to dinner with a footman with
powdered wigs and high-heeled breeches
that would assist you to and from the
table because those chairs weigh 75 to
100 pounds you can just picture yourself
sitting down and dining and first
talking the first course to the person
on your left and the second course she
would speak to the person on your right
and he would continue this very proper
etiquette through this four to five hour
dinner and you're looking at the
portrait of Alva Vanderbilt she was born
in Mobile Alabama in 1853 and her father
was a cotton merchant and after the
Civil War he decided to move his wife
and three daughters to France and Alba
went to the finest finishings girl
schools in France and this is where she
fell in love with everything French and
truly the house that she designed along
with the architect Richard Morris hunt
it is an encyclopedia of French design
well this concludes your evening at
Marvel's house and I think when you walk
through the front doors of this
beautiful opulent house that was built
for the Vanderbilts William K and Alva
you step into the front entrance and you
get a feeling of what it was like to be
a part of the Gilded Age you can picture
Alba Vanderbilt sweeping down the
staircase but just for a moment stop and
think of yourself walking down that
staircase and a ground ensemble from
Paris France it was made just for you
for the Newport season they would come
to their cottage in Newport as they like
to call them here in Newport these grand
houses are actually cottages for only
eight to ten weeks the summer season
began in the middle of July and it would
extend through the end of September and
then they would pack everything up close
the house up for the season and return
to their home in New York leaving behind
magical memories they had created here
for all of us to enjoy when we read
about Alva and William K and how they
entertained hundreds
of people Bellevue Avenue in Newport
Rhode Island and all of the historic
houses here are something to see
don't miss marble house don't miss the
opportunity to step through the front
door and feel like you're a part of an
era that will never be repeated again
thank you for coming please enjoy